---
categories:
    - Release
tags:
    - gh-pages

title: 1.64.0
---

{{page.title}} is live and ready for [download](https://github.com/MaibornWolff/codecharta/releases/tag/{{page.title}}). This version brings the following:

### Added 🚀

-   Download and upload Custom Configurations is now possible ([#1472](https://github.com/MaibornWolff/codecharta/issues/1472))

    -   Open the Custom Configs menu in the toolbar on top of the map
    -   Next to the `plus` Button you can see two new buttons: Upload and download.
        -   Download: If you already have added Custom Configs you can download them by clicking the download button.
            -   Custom Configs which are applicable for the currently selected map(s) will be downloaded as `.cc.config.json` files.
        -   Upload: Click the upload button and specify your Custom Config file (`<file-name>.cc.config.json`)
            -   Already existing Custom Configs will be skipped.
            -   Different Custom Configs with same names will be renamed.
            -   Another way to upload your Custom Configs is to upload a `.cc.json` file together with one or multiple `.cc.config.json` files using the default `Load .cc.json map` button in the upper left corner.
    -   The Configs are stored to the local storage of your browser.
        -   If a limit of `768KB` is exceeded you will see a warning when trying to add a new Custom Config.
        -   You can click the displayed "download and purge" button to download/backup at least 6 months old Configs and then purge them from the local storage to make space for new ones.
        -   If we cannot purge any Configs, you might have to do that by your own by deleting specific Configs manually.

### Changed

-   Increase possible margin size ([#1490](https://github.com/MaibornWolff/codecharta/pull/1490))
    -   change displayed margin value from % to pixel
    -   change dynamic margin value to a default margin value that should fit the map

### Fixed 🐞

-   Re-enabled color selection for folders and on hover ([#1544](https://github.com/MaibornWolff/codecharta/pull/1544))
-   Labels do not take delta height into account ([#1523](https://github.com/MaibornWolff/codecharta/issues/1523))
-   The calculation of the map resolution scale factor was wrong ([#1491](https://github.com/MaibornWolff/codecharta/issues/1491))
    -   The factor is used to decrease the map resolution especially for big maps to avoid performance issues.
    -   Now only the selected maps will be considered for the calculation. Unselected maps will be skipped.
