---
categories:
    - Release
tags:
    - gh-pages

title: 1.62.0
---

{{page.title}} is live and ready for [download](https://github.com/MaibornWolff/codecharta/releases/tag/{{page.title}}). This version brings the following:

### Added 🚀

-   A new option in the Global Settings allows to enable/disable experimental features #1318
    -   Click on the settings button in the upper right corner to open the Global Settings dialog.
    -   Activate/Deactivate the new option "Enable Experimental Features"
    -   The features will be shown/hidden accordingly
-   "CustomViews", the first experimental feature has been added #1318

    -   It must be enabled by activating the new option in the Global Settings dialog as mentioned before.
    -   You can save your current map configurations to replay/restore them later.
    -   A saved CustomView can only be applied for it's original map.
    -   This will enable you to be more efficient in analizing projects by switching between different CustomViews.

-   NodeContextMenu now contains option to keep buildings highlighted #1323

-   Fixed Folder algorithm supports nested (parent-child) Fixed Folders #1431
    1. Define children of a Fixed Folder also as Fixed Folders by adding the `fixedPosition` attribute manually in `.cc.json`.
    1. All children of a parent Fixed Folder must be fixed.
    1. Read the how-to guide for further information: https://maibornwolff.github.io/codecharta/how-to/fixate_folders_with_a_custom_cc_json/

### Changed

-   Improved search

    1. Not providing any star in the search bar from now on expects the input to
       be a wildcard search. Thus, files are going to match paths that have
       leading or following characters. E.g., `oo` is going to match
       `/root/foobar`.
    1. To use the explicit former search mode, wrap the search entry in quotes as
       in: `"oo"`. This would only match filenames that are exactly `oo`.
    1. The search field accepts multiple search entries at once, separated by
       commata. `foo,bar` is going to search for both `*foo*` and `*bar*` and
       marks all matched files accordingly.
    1. It is possible to invert the search with a leading exclamation mark as in
       `!foobar`. That will match any file that does not match `*foobar*`. It is
       only possible to invert the complete input, not individual search entries.
    1. Whitespace handling changed to ignore leading whitespace.

-   Distribution metric #1188

    1. set rloc to default distribution metric, showing language percentages for real lines of code, if available. Else set to unary to show language distribution over files

-   Improved file sorting in the file overview of the search bar
    -   Numbers are sorted naturally
    -   Characters are compared with their base character (e.g., `a` is now next to `á`).
-   Label metric not shown by default anymore
